---
title: "Fairness in Healthcare E-Rostering: An Empirical Analysis of Antecedents and Effects"
subtitle: Conference article in the Proceedings of the 2026 European Conference on Information Systems.
type: research
sitemap: false
---

Fairness in healthcare shift scheduling is crucial for well-being of workers but remains challenging to achieve due to numerous requirements. While electronic rostering (e-rostering) helps manage the complexity of shift scheduling, its impact on fairness remains unclear. First, we develop a stimulus-organism-response model guided by organizational justice theory to explain how contextual factors in healthcare shift scheduling (schedule predictability, scheduling control, and relationship with supervisors) shape workers’ scheduling fairness perceptions and, in turn, influence job satisfaction. Second, we examine how e-rostering, compared to human scheduling, alters the relationships in this model. Using data from 185 healthcare workers, our results show that contextual factors significantly impact fairness perceptions, and salience shifts from procedural to distributive fairness in determining job satisfaction under e-rostering. We contribute to future research by highlighting how technologies can reshape the relationship between fairness and work attitudes, and to practice by offering design guidance for fair e-rostering.<br><br>
Bieri, M., Matt, C., Bersier, M., & Baumann, P. (2026). Fairness in Healthcare E-Rostering: An Empirical Analysis of Antecedents and Effects. <em>Proceedings of the 2026 European Conference on Information Systems</em>.
<div class="accordion accordion-flush" id="accordionECIS">
    <div class="accordion-item">
        <h2 class="accordion-header" id="headingECIS">
            <button class="accordion-button collapsed" type="button" data-bs-toggle="collapse" data-bs-target="#collapseECIS" aria-expanded="true" aria-controls="collapseECIS">
                View article
            </button>
        </h2>
        <div id="collapseECIS" class="accordion-collapse collapse" aria-labelledby="headingECIS" data-bs-parent="#accordionECIS">
            <div class="accordion-body">
                <embed src="/assets/files/ecis.pdf" height="1000px" width="100%" type="application/pdf">
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>