---
layout: post
title: "Towards a multicentric quality framework for legal information portals: An application to the DACH region"
subtitle: Article in Government Information Quarterly (GIQ).
sitemap: false
---

Legal Information Portals (LIPs) are central information offerings that give various user groups digital access to the law, including legislation, legal acts, or even court decisions. LIPs could provide access to complex legal content in a user-friendly yet accurate way, while exploiting the benefits of open data to enable easy access to legal content for other applications. However, the development of LIPs traditionally adheres to formal legal criteria, leaving users out in the cold. As a result, even the most modern LIPs fall short of providing a user-centric offering. To address this issue, we present a multicentric quality framework to help providers develop and evaluate LIPs by assessing their data quality, data portability, and usability. We apply the framework to the LIPs of Germany, Austria, and Switzerland (the DACH region: D: Deutschland [Germany], A: Austria, CH: Confoederatio Helvetica [Switzerland]) to illustrate its use and identify quality differences between their current systems. Our quality framework for LIPs helps decision-makers better understand and exploit the possibilities for the dissemination of legal information as part of their open justice initiatives. We contribute to the literature by complementing previous conceptual works with a concrete, comprehensive measurement schema that also serves as a basis for assessing user requirements and data portability configurations in other domains with high content complexity.
<br><br>
Matt, C.; Eichel, F.; Bieri, M.; Pfäffli, D. (2023): Towards a multicentric quality framework for legal information portals: An application to the DACH region, <em>Government Information Quarterly</em> 40(4), 101840, DOI: ([10.1016/j.giq.2023.101840<i class="bi-box-arrow-up-right link-icon"></i>](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0740624X23000400#ab0010){:target="_blank"}).